FOCUS #151: Commitment Discount Category (#173)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/dimensions/commitmentdiscounttype.md

> # Commitment Discount Type

Reviewer: Do we need to clarify how this is not the same as a negotiated discount you get when you commit to a spend-based commitment to a provider - as a part of your contract negotiation? 'Contractual commitment' below could be ambiguous.

Author: Yes, this makes sense. What is the term we used for the account-level, negotiated discounts?

Reviewer 2: @udam-f2, I'm assuming you're referring to the CBD description in the first paragraph. Since we're sourcing that from the CommitmentDiscountId PR, can you review the description there and leave a comment if you feel it's not covering anything in particular? I'll resolve this for this PR and we can update as needed.

> A commitment-based discount is a contractual commitment in exchange for a discounted unit price. Commitment discounts are available as spend-based or resource-based discounts, depending on the CSP offering them and the particular service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A commitment-based discount is a contractual commitment in exchange for a discounted unit price. Commitment discounts are available as spend-based or resource-based discounts, depending on the Provider's offering.
```

Reviewer: Also, not a fan of resource-based 'discounts'. Its really a discount due to a commitment for an amount of spend or resource consumption. 

FinOps documentation refers to this as resource-based commitments vs spend-based commitments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A commitment-based discount is a contractual commitment in exchange for a discounted unit price. These discounts may be available for spend-based commitments or resource-based commitments, depending on the Provider's offerings.
```

Reviewer 2: Can we move these comments to the CommitmentDiscountId PR? Given that's further along, I'd like to close the wording there. This PR should just copy what it has when finalized.

@rodneyjoyce along the same lines, if there's anything you feel is missing there, can you add a comment as well?

> A commitment-based discount is a contractual commitment for an amount of usage or spend throughout a specified term, in exchange for discounted unit pricing on that amount. The commitment may be based on quantities of resource units or monetary value, with various payment options and time frames.

Reviewer 3: Ideally, it'd be great to clearly distance this definition from a "capacity reservation" which absolutely isn't a discount.

You could call out that capacity guarantees MAY be coupled with a commitment discount type (but not always).

Reviewer: If making an update here, I assume we would have to make it elsewhere. I like "Commitment Discount *" not being mixed with on-demand capacity reservations in AWS (and the equivalents) since they don't apply here. Would we make a differentiation where "Commitment Discount *" columns only apply to cases where your commitment gets discounts and "Commitment *" columns getting used when a column must apply to either?

Reviewer 3: I think that makes sense

Reviewer 2: Do you think we need to explicitly call this out here?

Reviewer 4: Hey @cnharris10,
Why do you think it can be confused with capacity reservation? Capacity reservation doesn't provide discount and can be cancelled at any time, so it is not really a commitment and doesn't fall into above definition. 
Another note, what is meant by word 'contractual' here? Is it really needed?

Reviewer: I can see your point @yprikhodko and @flanakin. Ok if we don't make any reference to capacity reservations. 

Conceptually the only similarities are the fact that you have a used and unused portion that would need to be charged to the capacity reservation itself and the fact that there's a 'reservation' not a 'commitment' per se.

Also ok without 'contractual' in the description. It's no more contractual than any other usage or purchase with a provider.

Reviewer 3: Simply, the fact that AWS and Azure uses "reservation" in "Capacity Reservation", GCP literally calls a capacity reservation a "Reservation", and AWS/Azure-like "reservations" are "commitments" (except BigQuery reservations are "reservations") in GCP makes differentiating these terms incredibly complex.

Just a line that says, ~"Commitments may be bundled with infrastructure guarantees but entirely disjoint from purchases that don't incur a fix term" would go a long way.

Author: I have removed the word "contractual" in the following files:

- commitmentdiscountname
- commitmentdiscounttype
- commitmentdiscountid

> This column determines whether the commitment is based on a minimum spend or minimum usage.

Reviewer 5: Does this column apply for:
- Lines corresponding to commitment purchases (when a RI/SP is purchased)
- Lines corresponding to commitment usages (when a resource is used and the RI/SP discount applies)
- Both?

Reviewer 2: nit: Follow the typical "A <column name> is..." pattern. Might be good to say reference the CommitmentDiscountId column, since this is in reference to that.

Author: I am not 100% sure on this, but I would imagine it only applies where the ChargeType is Purchase - ie. the record where you bought the ComittmentDiscount.  I guess this depends on which column records the unit price discount that has been in given in exchange for the comittment.

Reviewer 2: I would expect this to be on the usage records as well.

Author: Ok, but it would only apply where the CommitmentDiscountId is not null

Reviewer 5: Could a ChargeType be a Purchase of something that is not a commitment discount? I believe ChargeType can be Purchase for Marketplace. In this case, CommitmentDiscountId would not apply.

Furthemore, a CommitmentDiscountType could also apply where the ChargeType is UnusedCommittment (in Azure, UnusedCommittment is actually either UnusedReservation or UnusedSavingsPlan).

The specification says later "When a charge is not associated with a commitment-based discount, the column MUST be null." So, maybe the column CommitmentDiscountType must not be null if and only if the rows related to  a commitment  discount, whatever its ChargeType. Or maybe we need to have a vision or direction on structuring dimensions ChargeType (and PricingModel to me), which drives the behavior of other dimensions like CommitmentDiscountType and CommitmentDiscountId.

Reviewer 2: All `CommitmentDiscount*` columns should be specified when the charge (any type of charge) is related to a commitment-based discount.

We haven't closed unused commitment handling yet. I forwarded you an invite in case you can make it :-) 

+1 on your last paragraph. `PricingModel` convos are pending. If you have thoughts, we could setup time to chat!

> This column determines whether the commitment is based on a minimum spend or minimum usage.

Reviewer 2: nit: "Spend" is jargon. Do we want to use that? We haven't taken a stance on whether we'll use jargon or not. Admittedly, "cost" doesn't roll off the tongue in the same way, but we do have "cost" columns and we do not have "spend" columns. Food for thought...

Author: If Spend and Cost can be used interchangeably then it's probably wise it standardise on Cost and not introduce another term. Anyone else have thoughts on this?

Reviewer 6: Tough call. `Spend` here is part of a descriptor of a commitment, representing a commitment of monetary-amount per time-unit. Is the question, "Do we allow jargon in field values?" 

If we standardised on "cost": the "cost" **_at the basis of the_** commitment is a different term from "cost" **_of the_** commitment. Not clear to me yet if this is problematic.

Reviewer 2: I feel this needs to be part of our core design principles. Let me bring this to the practitioner squad and see what they say. Leave this comment open, but let's not block on it. If anyone has any opinions, please share them here.

Reviewer 5: The word "spend" is used by AWS ("Savings Plans is a flexible pricing model that can help you reduce your bill by up to 72% compared to On-Demand prices, in exchange for a one- or three-year hourly spend commitment"), by GCP ("Spend-based committed use discounts provide a discount in exchange for your commitment to spend a minimum amount for a product or service."), and by Azure ("[Savings Plan] Get lower prices by agreeing to spend a fixed hourly amount on compute services for one or three years.").

Moreover, "spend-based commitment discount" sounds much clearer than "cost-based commitment discount".

Author: Ok, going with Spend

> The CommitmentDiscountType column MUST be present in the billing data. This column must be of type String and MUST NOT contain null values when a charge IS related to a commitment-based discount. When a charge IS NOT associated with a commitment-based discount, the column MUST be null. The CommitmentDiscountType MUST be one of the allowed values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CommitmentDiscountType column MUST be present in the billing data. This column must be of type String and MUST NOT contain null values when a charge is related to a commitment-based discount. When a charge is associated with a commitment-based discount, the column MUST be null. The CommitmentDiscountType MUST be one of the allowed values.
```

Reviewer 2: Missed a very important "not"...
```suggestion
The CommitmentDiscountType column MUST be present in the billing data. This column must be of type String and MUST NOT contain null values when a charge is related to a commitment-based discount. When a charge is not associated with a commitment-based discount, the column MUST be null. The CommitmentDiscountType MUST be one of the allowed values.
```

## Column ID

CommitmentDiscountType

## Display name

Commitment Discount Type

## Description

Indicates whether the commitment-based discount identified in the CommitmentDiscountId column is based on usage quantity or cost (aka "spend").

## Content constraints

|    Constraint   |      Value       |
|:----------------|:-----------------|
| Column required | True             |
| Data type       | String           |
| Allows nulls    | True             |

> | Value format    | List of values   |

Reviewer: We have been using list-of-values
```suggestion
| Value format    | list-of-values   |
```

Allowed values:

| Value      | Description                                                                                                                                                                   |
|:---------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Spend-based    | Commitments are purchased and measured in terms of the dollars per hour of equivalent on-demand spend.                                                                    |

Reviewer 2: I believe `-Based` should be capitalized.

> |:---------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
> | Spend   | Commitment-based discounts that require a predetermined amount of spend.    |
> | Usage   | Commitment-based discounts that require a predetermined amount of usage.     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|:--------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Spend   | Commitment-based discounts that require a predetermined amount of spend.    |
| Usage   | Commitment-based discounts that require a predetermined amount of usage.    |
```

Reviewer: Personally, I think Spend-commitment and Usage commitment are more descriptive terms than just Spend and Usage. Curious what others think. I think that may have gotten updated recently so I assume it was discussed.

Reviewer 5: Personally, I find "shorter is better" for column values, as the column name gives the context for the values.
Another example is the PricingModel PR: I would find cumbersome if every value of the Pricing Model column is suffixed with "Pricing Model".
For column names, I find that values being more explicit and descriptive is indeed better.

Reviewer 7: I would vote for Usage and Spend as column name is descriptive

> | Usage-Based   | Commitment-based discounts that require a predetermined amount of usage.     |

Reviewer 2: nit: Does having "-Based" in both (and potentially all future) values feel unnecessary to anyone else? Should we just use `Spend` and `Usage`?

Reviewer 5: I agree "-based" is needed in the description (plain text) but it is superfluous in the values, as it's present for all values.

Reviewer 8: +1

> | Usage-Based   | Commitment-based discounts that require a predetermined amount of usage.     |

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
| Usage         | Commitment-based discounts that require a predetermined amount of usage.     |
```

> | Spend-Based   | Commitment-based discounts that require a predetermined amount of spend.    |
> 	| Usage-Based   | Commitment-based discounts that require a predetermined amount of usage.     |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Spend-Based   | Commitment-based discounts that require a predetermined amount of spend.    |
| Usage-Based   | Commitment-based discounts that require a predetermined amount of usage.     |
```

> | Resource-based | Commitments are purchased and measured in terms of the underlying resources.                                                                                              |

Reviewer 2: Technically, both quantity and cost are based on resources. It's probably more accurate to refer to this as either a "Quantity-Based" or "Usage-Based". 

Just to throw out another idea: We could use the column name that is committed. I'm not sure that's ideal, but just wanted to share in case that sparks something.
```suggestion
| Usage-Based | Commitments are purchased and measured in terms of the underlying resource usage.                                                                                              |
```

Author: Is this something I should put in a poll to a wider audience to get a quorum?

Reviewer 2: That might be quickest. If we feel we have agreement here, then there's no need, but polls do tend to get relatively quick closure.

Author: I am now leaning more towards Usage-Based after reading through some of the other polls. I'll still put it to a poll to see if there's something we have missed if we change to this

Author: Actually, no, I think we agree on this - no one else has commented, so I'll switch to Usage-Based and anyone can comment here if they feel strongly about it.

# Commitment Discount Type

> A commitment-based discount is a contractual commitment in exchange for a discounted unit price. These discounts may be available for spend-based commitments or resource-based commitments, depending on the Provider's offerings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A commitment-based discount is a contractual commitment for an amount of usage or spend throughout a specified term, in exchange for discounted unit pricing on that amount. The commitment may be based on quantities of resource units or monetary value, with various payment options and time frames.
```

Reviewer: Brining over the definition that was finalized in Commitment Discount ID/Name

> This column determines whether the commitment is based on a minimum spend or minimum usage.

Reviewer: We decided to remove the word minimum to make this more general / future-proof.

Reviewer 2: Covered in the other comment.

> This column determines whether the commitment is based on a minimum spend or minimum usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This column determines whether the commitment is resource-based or usage-based.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This column determines whether the commitment is based on usage quantity or cost (aka "spend").
```

> The CommitmentDiscountType column MUST be present in the billing data. This column must be of type String, MUST be null when CommitmentDiscountId is null, and MUST NOT be null when CommitmentDiscountId is not null.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CommitmentDiscountType column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be of type String, MUST be null when CommitmentDiscountId is null, and MUST NOT be null when CommitmentDiscountId is not null.
```

> The CommitmentDiscountType column MUST be present in the billing data. This column must be of type String, MUST be null when CommitmentDiscountId is null, and MUST NOT be null when CommitmentDiscountId is not null.
> 
> The CommitmentDiscountType MUST be one of the allowed values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CommitmentDiscountType column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be of type String, MUST be null when CommitmentDiscountId is null, and MUST NOT be null when CommitmentDiscountId is not null. The CommitmentDiscountType MUST be one of the allowed values.
```

## Column ID

CommitmentDiscountType

## Display name

Commitment Discount Type

## Description

> The type of commitment agreed to in exchange for the discounted unit price.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Indicates whether the commitment-based discount identified in the CommitmentDiscountId column is based on usage quantity or cost (aka "spend").
```

## Content constraints

|    Constraint   |      Value       |
|:----------------|:-----------------|
| Column required | True             |
| Data type       | String           |
| Allows nulls    | True             |
| Value format    | List of values   |

Allowed values:

> | Value      | Description                                                                                                                                                                   |
> |:---------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
> | Spend-Based    | Commitments are purchased and measured in terms of the dollars per hour of equivalent on-demand spend.                                                                    |
> | Usage-Based | Commitments are purchased and measured in terms of the underlying resource usage.                                                                                              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Value      | Description                                                                       |
|:---------------|:-----------------------------------------------|
| Spend-Based   | Commitments requiring an amount of spend.    |
| Usage-Based   | Commitments requiring an amount of usage     |
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Value      | Description                                                                                                                                                                   |
|:---------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Spend-Based   | Commitment-based discounts that require a predetermined amount of spend.    |
	| Usage-Based   | Commitment-based discounts that require a predetermined amount of usage.     |
```
